Time to show you the last two visualizations in that module, combined charts and bridges,
let's start.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to separate our cards from the two visualizations
we will create in this video. To do that, we can go to the home ribbon and select shapes and maybe select
a line.
We learned that in the interface video, position it right here right, click right there and increase it and maybe drag it to the left
a little bit.
Now we get that,
so I want to show you combined charts and I will use the line and cluster column chart,
so this is this one right here. Let me click that, position it right here,
increase the size a little bit like that
and now we have to bring that chart to life.
What I want to display in that chart actually, I want to show you the development of the total population
again as columns and I want to show you the share of the female population,
so our measure as a line chart and everything combined in that single visualization.
Let's see how this works.
So the first thing we have to decide is the shared axis,
well one thing both will have in common is the year,
so let's go to the FACT-Population table, select the year and drag it right there.
So far this doesn't help a lot,
the next thing we have to decide is the column values and let's say I want to display the population in
different columns,
so it might make sense to drag the population to this field. So I'm selecting it right here and drag
it right there.
Now this looks good already, right,
the only thing that's missing is the share of the female population
and we can define that when we select a dataset for the line values,
so right here because we want to display it as a line.
Now if I take our population share measure and drag it right here, then we're already done with our chart.
The only thing that I don't like is the scaling of that second y-axis because it starts up here,
so with the almost 50%
but this is quite misleading actually. To change that,
we simply select a visualization, go to the format area right here, press that, now go to y-axis and now
we have to be careful because we have two y-axis, the y-axis column,
this one right here
and if we scroll down, we have the y-axis line, that one right here
and we want to change the y-axis of the line,
so we have to select this one and now define the start at 0.4955 because it's a percentage
and the end maybe at 0.505,
yes I think this looks better.
So we can close that now
and now we can see that we quickly created a combined chart.
Let me show you one last visualization then, the waterfall chart or I also refer to that as bridge chart sometimes.
So to find that, you click simply right here and it says waterfall chart in Power BI,
so we click that, now drag it right here and right there and in this chart, you only have to define
two things, the category and the y-axis. The category in our case,
well this could be our category,
so our age group category, let's select that. If we go to the the DIM-AgeGroup table, go to category and drag it right
here.
Now we don't see a lot of things because we have to define the y-axis
and in this case, the y-axis is again the population.
So if you scroll down, go to population and drag it right here, then you can see that we quickly created a waterfall
chart.
So this is it,
those were the last two visualizations that I wanted to show you in this module.
This means we are now ready for a module summary and we will do that in the next video.